INT-2490: Updated react documentation (#1934)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: _includes/integrations/react-tech-ref.md

  - [`initialValue`](#initialvalue)
  - [`inline`](#inline)
  - [`onEditorChange`](#oneditorchange)
  - [`outputFormat` (*deprecated*)](#outputformat)
  - [`plugins`](#plugins)
  - [`scriptLoading`](#scriptloading)
  - [`tagName`](#tagname)
  - [`textareaName`](#textareaname)
  - [`toolbar`](#toolbar)
  - [`tinymceScriptSrc`](#tinymcescriptsrc)
  - [`value`](#value)

- [Using the TinyMCE React component as a uncontrolled component](#usingthetinymcereactcomponentasauncontrolledcomponent)
- [Using the TinyMCE React component as a controlled component](#usingthetinymcereactcomponentasacontrolledcomponent)
- [Event binding](#eventbinding)

> ### Installing the TinyMCE React integration using NPM or Yarn

Author: This title change broke the link to this section.
[ ] fix link

To install the `tinymce-react` package and save it to your `package.json`.

```sh
$ npm install --save @tinymce/tinymce-react
```

or with Yarn

```sh
$ yarn add @tinymce/tinymce-react
```

### Configuring the editor

The following are the most common properties grouped by category.

> #### Configuring editor source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configuring editor source

```
Adding a new line for style consistency.

Author: done

The integration will load {{site.productname}} from these sources in this priority:
1. If the global `tinymce` is present on the page nothing additional will be loaded and it will be used.

> 2. If the `tinymceScriptSrc` property is provided then a script tag will be added to load {{site.productname}} from the given URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the `tinymceScriptSrc` property is provided, then a script tag will be added to load {{site.productname}} from the given URL.
```

Author: done

3. Finally if none of the above conditions apply then a script tag will be added to load {{site.productname}} from {{site.cloudname}}.

These settings are used to configure this behavior further:

<dl>
<dt><a href="#apikey"><code>apiKey</code></a></dt>
<dd>The {{site.cloudname}} API key. When loading from {{site.cloudname}} specify this to remove the &quot;This domain is not registered...&quot; warning message.</dd>
<dt><a href="#cloudchannel"><code>cloudChannel</code></a></dt>

> <dd>The build of {{site.productname}} used when loading from {{site.cloudname}}.</dd>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<dd>The channel of {{site.productname}} used when loading from {{site.cloudname}}.</dd>
```
Build isn't really accurate (it's more the release) and it's called channel elsewhere, so this keeps it consistent.

Author: done

<dt><a href="#scriptloading"><code>scriptLoading</code></a></dt>

> <dd>The script loading behavior settings. Allows setting the async and defer attributes as well as adding an additional delay in milliseconds.</dd>

Author: done

<dt><a href="#tinymcescriptsrc"><code>tinymceScriptSrc</code></a></dt>
<dd>The URL to load {{site.productname}}, normally used when loading a self hosted version of {{site.productname}}.</dd>
</dl>

#### Configuring page elements

> These settings provide some control over the page elements that the integration creates:.

Author: done

<dl>
<dt><a href="#id"><code>id</code></a></dt>
<dd>The id attribute for the element that the editor is initialized on.</dd>
<dt><a href="#inline"><code>inline</code></a></dt>
<dd>Load the editor as part of the page sharing the page styling and selection.</dd>
<dt><a href="#tagname"><code>tagName</code></a></dt>

> <dd>The tag used for creating an inline editor. Ignored for an iframe editor.</dd>

Author: done

<dt><a href="#textareaname"><code>textareaName</code></a></dt>

> <dd>The name attribute on the textarea tag used for creating the iframe editor. Ignored for an inline editor.</dd>

Author: done

<dl>
<dt><a href="#disabled"><code>disabled</code></a></dt>
<dd>Should the editor be in read-only mode.</dd>
<dt><a href="#initialvalue"><code>initialValue</code></a></dt>
<dd>The starting value of the editor which should only be set once as any change will reset the editor.</dd>
<dt><a href="#eventbinding"><code>onBeforeAddUndo</code></a></dt>
<dd>An event handler for notifying when the editor is about to create an undo level and preventing it if required. This is important for controlled components that restrict the allowed values of the editor.</dd>
<dt><a href="#oneditorchange"><code>onEditorChange</code></a></dt>
<dd>An event handler for detecting editor changes normally used when implementing a controlled component.</dd>
<dt><a href="#eventbinding"><code>onInit</code></a></dt>
<dd>An event handler for notifying when the editor has initialized. Useful for getting the initial value of the editor or obtaining a reference to the editor that can be used for a uncontrolled component.</dd>
<dt><a href="#value"><code>value</code></a></dt>
<dd>Sets and enforces the value of the editor. Only used for a controlled component.</dd>
</dl>

> None of the configuration properties are **required** for the {{site.productname}} React component to work however as previously noted that when loading from {{site.cloudname}} a warning message

Author: done

```

#### `cloudChannel`

> Changes the {{site.productname}} build used for the editor to either a specific version or a channel indicating a stability level.

Author: done

**Default value:** `{{site.productmajorversion}}-stable`

> **Possible values:**  `{{site.productmajorversion}}-stable`, `{{site.productmajorversion}}-testing`, `{{site.productmajorversion}}-dev`, `{{site.productminorversion}}.0`

Author: done

Changes the {{site.productname}} build used for the editor to one of the following {{site.cloudname}} channels:

- `{{site.productmajorversion}}-stable` (**Default**): The current enterprise release of {{site.productname}}.
- `{{site.productmajorversion}}-testing`: The current release candidate for the next enterprise release of {{site.productname}}.
- `{{site.productmajorversion}}-dev`: The nightly-build version of {{site.productname}}.

> - A version number such as `{{site.productminorversion}}.0`: The specific enterprise release version of {{site.productname}}.

Reviewer: As mentioned above, we really should avoid using/recommending  a specific patch release and should only do up to the minor version if we want to include that.

Author: done

```

#### `initialValue`

The initial HTML content of the editor. This will reset the editor undo state and cursor when changed.

This may be set either before the editor loads, or soon afterwards by an asynchronous
process.

> Ensure that this is **not** updated by the editor value or the editor will be unusable.

Reviewer: Should this be an admonition? ie be prefixed with `> **Important**:`

Author: done

##### Example: Using `outputFormat`

```jsx
const textToHtml = (text) => {
  const elem = document.createElement('div');
  return text.split(/\n\n+/).map((paragraph) => {
    return '<p>' + paragraph.split(/\n+/).map((line) => {
      elem.textContent = line;
      return elem.innerHTML;
    }).join('<br/>') + '</p>';
  }).join('');
};
const initialText = 'The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog';
const [text, setText] = useState(initialText);
return (
  <>
    <Editor
      initialValue={textToHtml(initialText)}
      outputFormat='text'
      onEditorChange={(newText) => setText(newText)}
    />
    <pre>{text}</pre>
  </>
);
```

##### Example: Replacing usage of `outputFormat`

```jsx
const [value, setValue] = useState('<p>The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog</p>');
const [text, setText] = useState('');

return (
  <>
    <Editor
      value={value}
      onInit={(evt, editor) => {
        setText(editor.getContent({format: 'text'}));
      }}
      onEditorChange={(newValue, editor) => {
        setValue(newValue);
        setText(editor.getContent({format: 'text'}));
      }}
    />
    <pre>{text}</pre>
  </>
);
```

#### `plugins`

> Used to include plugins for the editor. Using `<Editor plugins='lists' />` is the same as setting `{plugins: 'lists'}` in the {{site.productname}} method `tinymce.init({...})`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Used to include plugins for the editor. Using `<Editor plugins='lists' />` is the same as setting `{plugins: 'lists'}` in the {{site.productname}} `tinymce.init({...})` method.
```
Maybe? It just reads rather odd at the moment is all.

Author: Hmmm, I'm not sure I agree it's better. If we put in the product name it reads:
> in the TinyMCE method `tinymce.init({...})`.

With your change it becomes:
> in the TinyMCE `tinymce.init({...})` method.

which seems worse to me.

Author: @tylerkelly13 which version would you prefer?

Reviewer: we could always drop the `productname` in the above as well so that it becomes:
> in the tinymce.init({...}) method.

Author: I guess the reason it's spelled out like that is that the react users may not have used TinyMCE directly before so they may not have ever seen the `init` method before.

Author: It's written that way in 4 places. Twice in the `init` description, once in `inline` and once in `plugins`

Author: Though it is additionally phrased "the `tinymce.init({...})` method" in `init`

/>
```

#### `scriptLoading`

Used to configure the script tag created to load {{site.productname}}.

Contains 3 settings:
<dl>
<dt><code>async</code></dt>
<dd>Sets the <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#attr-async"><code>async</code></a> attribute on the script tag created to load {{site.productname}}. 
<blockquote cite="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#attr-async">For classic scripts, if the async attribute is present, then the classic script will be fetched in parallel to parsing and evaluated as soon as it is available.</blockquote>

> <b>Default value:</b> <code>false</code>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<strong>Default value:</strong> <code>false</code>
```

Author: done

</dd>
<dt><code>defer</code></dt>
<dd>Sets the <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#attr-defer"><code>defer</code></a> attribute on the script tag created to load {{site.productname}}. 
<blockquote cite="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#attr-defer">This Boolean attribute is set to indicate to a browser that the script is meant to be executed after the document has been parsed, but before firing DOMContentLoaded.</blockquote>

> <b>Default value:</b> <code>false</code>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<strong>Default value:</strong> <code>false</code>
```

Author: done

</dd>
<dt><code>delay</code></dt>
<dd>The script tag to load {{site.productname}} will not be added to the document for the number of milliseconds indicated.<br/>

> <b>Default value:</b> <code>0</code>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<strong>Default value:</strong> <code>0</code>
```

Author: done

Contains 3 settings:
<dl>
<dt><code>async</code></dt>
<dd>Sets the <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#attr-async"><code>async</code></a> attribute on the script tag created to load {{site.productname}}.
<blockquote cite="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#attr-async">For classic scripts, if the async attribute is present, then the classic script will be fetched in parallel to parsing and evaluated as soon as it is available.</blockquote>
<strong>Default value:</strong> <code>false</code>
</dd>
<dt><code>defer</code></dt>
<dd>Sets the <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#attr-defer"><code>defer</code></a> attribute on the script tag created to load {{site.productname}}.
<blockquote cite="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#attr-defer">This Boolean attribute is set to indicate to a browser that the script is meant to be executed after the document has been parsed, but before firing DOMContentLoaded.</blockquote>
<strong>Default value:</strong> <code>false</code>
</dd>
<dt><code>delay</code></dt>

> <dd>Adds a delay (in milliseconds) between; when the script tag read by the browser and {{site.productname}} is loaded.<br/>

Author: ```suggestion
<dd>The script tag to load {{site.productname}} will be added after the specified delay in milliseconds.<br/>
```

```

#### `value`
The HTML content of the editor when operating as a controlled component. 

When this property is different to the current editor content, the editor content

> will be changed to match (within 200 milliseconds) and a undo level will be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will be changed to match (within 200 milliseconds) and an undo level will be created.
```

Author: done

> When the editor content changes by this mechanism an attempt will be made to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the editor content changes by this mechanism, an attempt will be made to
```

Author: I put the comma in a different place (just before "however") as I didn't like the flow when putting it here.

retain the selection however if the previous selection does not exist in the new

> content the cursor will be returned to the start of the document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
content, the cursor will be returned to the start of the document.
```

Author: With the comma before "however" I didn't like one here.

This property allows the editor to be used as a controlled component by setting 
the `value` property and using the `onEditorChange` event to update the `value`.

For more information, see: [Using the {{site.productname}} React component as a controlled component](#usingthetinymcereactcomponentasacontrolledcomponent).

**Type:** String

### Using the {{site.productname}} React component as a uncontrolled component

> The {{site.productname}} React component is best used as a uncontrolled component
> when possible as it allows the editor to perform well on larger documents.

Reviewer 2: Maybe strip out "when possible" as its implied
```suggestion
The {{site.productname}} React component is best used as an uncontrolled component as it allows the editor to perform well on larger documents.
```

Author: done

When using the editor in the uncontrolled mode you must avoid using the `value`

> and `onEditorChange` props. Instead get the content of the editor directly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and `onEditorChange` props. Instead, get the content of the editor directly
```

Author: done

when it is needed. This is easiest done by storing the editor reference when the
`onInit` event handler is called.

If you need to provide visual feedback to the user when there is content ready 

> to be saved then you can use the `onDirty` event handler combined with clearing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to be saved you can use the `onDirty` event handler combined with clearing
```

Author: done

```

#### `value`

The HTML content of the editor when operating as a controlled component. 

When this property is different to the current editor content, the editor content
will be changed to match (within 200 milliseconds) and an undo level will be created.
When the editor content changes by this mechanism an attempt will be made to
retain the selection, however if the previous selection does not exist in the new
content the cursor will be returned to the start of the document.

This property allows the editor to be used as a controlled component by setting 
the `value` property and using the `onEditorChange` event to update the `value`.

For more information, see: [Using the {{site.productname}} React component as a controlled component](#usingthetinymcereactcomponentasacontrolledcomponent).

**Type:** String

### Using the {{site.productname}} React component as a uncontrolled component

> The {{site.productname}} React component is best used as a uncontrolled component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{site.productname}} React component is best used as an uncontrolled component
```

Author: done

as it allows the editor to perform well on larger documents.

When using the editor in the uncontrolled mode you must avoid using the `value`
and `onEditorChange` props. Instead, get the content of the editor directly
when it is needed. This is easiest done by storing the editor reference when the
`onInit` event handler is called.

If you need to provide visual feedback to the user when there is content ready 
to be saved you can use the `onDirty` event handler combined with clearing
the dirty state when saving the editor content.

##### Example: Functional uncontrolled component with save button and dirty state

```jsx
function MyComponent({initialValue}) {

>   const edRef = useRef(null);

Reviewer: `editorRef` here as well maybe just for consistency?

Author: done

  const [dirty, setDirty] = useState(false);
  useEffect(() => setDirty(false), [initialValue]);
  const save = () => {
    if (editorRef.current) {
      const content = editorRef.current.getContent();
      setDirty(false);
      editorRef.current.setDirty(false);
      // an application would save the editor content to the server here
      console.log(content);
    }
  };
  return (
    <>
      <Editor
        initialValue={initialValue}
        onInit={(evt, editor) => editorRef.current = editor}
        onDirty={() => setDirty(true)}
      />
      <button onClick={save} disabled={!dirty}>Save</button>
      {dirty && <p>You have unsaved content!</p>}
    </>
  );
}
```

### Using the {{site.productname}} React component as a controlled component

> **Warning**: The controlled component can have performance problems on large
documents as it requires converting the entire document to a string on each
keystroke or modification.

To use the editor as a [controlled component](https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html#controlled-components)

> both the `value` and `onEditorChange` props should be used.

Author: This was not a typo. Props are a term used by react.
See
https://www.w3schools.com/react/react_props.asp
https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html

> both the `value` and `onEditorChange` props should be used.

Reviewer 3: Fair enough.
Updated suggestion

The `value` prop enforces the given value so if it is provided on its own then the
editor will rollback any changes. 

The `onEditorChange` prop allows providing an event handler that will be run

> on any change to the editor value. Changes to the editor must be applied to the

Author: Nope, that'll fire it too.

> on any change to the editor value. Changes to the editor must be applied to the

Author: Infinite loops are avoided because the `value` prop only does something when it is different to the editor content.

> on any change to the editor value. Changes to the editor must be applied to the

Author: It does not get fired for the initial content if it is set before the editor is created.

> on any change to the editor value. Changes to the editor must be applied to the

Reviewer 3: Fair enough.

> `value` prop within 200 milliseconds to avoid them being rolled back.

Author: It's a timer value in a `setTimeout` call. It was originally set very aggressively to 1 millisecond but I got complaints from people using frameworks that it was too fast so I made it as slow as I thought was still reasonable.

> `value` prop within 200 milliseconds to avoid them being rolled back.

Reviewer 3: ok, cool. Thanks for clarifying.

```

#### `value`

Sets the HTML content of the editor when operating as a controlled component.

When this prop is different to the current editor content, the editor content
will be changed to match (within 200 milliseconds) and an undo level will be created.
When the editor content changes by this mechanism, the editor will attempt to
retain the selection, however if the previous selection does not exist in the new

> content, the cursor set to the start of the document.

Author: ```suggestion
content, the cursor returns to the start of the document.
```
